Alright! In this video, we are gonna go
through and work through the assignment
and that's basically to take what we did
for categories and do that for vendors.
So, the first thing I need to do is come
over here and create the class for our
VendorController. I'm gonna right
click there, Class.
We'll create that new class in there.
We see that, we're gonna go
ahead and add that to git, and I'm gonna
show you a little trick here. I'm gonna
come in here and do a Split
Horizontally. I can close him on the
top. Now, we have our CategoryController
at the top. So, this is like a template
for exactly what we wanna code this
time. So, we can take this step by step
and code this up.
@RestController
This time, we want the VendoRepository.
We do it. I'm on a Mac, so I'm gonna do a
command N to generate constructor, and
because we have that constructor, Spring
is gonna automatically autowire that
for us.
And now here, let's go ahead and
implement the list method. So, we are
going to do return back a flux of
vendors. So remember, the flux is the
reactive type for one or for zero or
many elements, opposed to mono, which is
zero or one element. Once you say.
And this is gonna return back the
vendorRepository, and we'll do it findAll().
Now, we need to decorate with this with
annotations. This is going to do a
@GetMapping,
and the URL is gonna be our api/v1.
This is just a million versions
of the API, so pretty common. You'll do
like a v1/api, and then, you might do it
v2, as things evolve but you wanna
keep the v1/api available for clients
that are using that.
So, we're gonna do v1/vendors.
Let's go ahead and implement the
getById as well. Now, this guy is gonna
return back a mono.
I'm on Category. And we'll  import
that class.
Call them getById again. And this is
gonna take in a string id value.
Do findById and passing the ID
value. So, that sets up our method. But,
what's not happy there. Oh vendorRepository.
oh my bad. Copying over code from above.
So,
my mistake there.
Now, here again, we're getting used to
GetMapping.
But this time, we're gonna set up the URL.
Do a little squiggly line their, id. So,
that's gonna be a URL parameter. And
then, finally, we need to add in that @PathVariable annotation.
And again, that's going to basically map
by the name so it's gonna do some
reflection to set things up. So, because I
set this property name to id, it's gonna
look for a property there of id to
bind to. So, that's how the @PathVariable
annotation's gonna work. Okay, so that
sets up my controller, but we also wanna
set up our test. So, I can come in here
and do it. If you're on OS X, I can do
option enter and say Create Test, and we
wanna set these up, and let's also
create a setUp.
So, you can see IntelliJ creative stub
with the test here. I'm gonna click up
in this window and it will open up the
category test so it we're gonna do the
exact same thing here. Let's go ahead and
add these in.
And here, we're gonna do the VendorRepository,
and sometimes, especially in tests,
your VendorController as far
as property names I'll go. I'll personally
go back and forth. I probably should be
consistent on it. But to be honest with
you, I am not. So that is potentially a
bad habit. But for tests, I think it's
okay, because a lot of times tests, you're
gonna be testing a specific
controller. So, whether you call a
VendorController or controller, I don't think
it's that much or that important for
a test specifically. So here, we wanna
set up our vendorRepository. We're
gonna say equals Mockito.
So, that's just another way of
initializing those mocks.
And again, here, just so you realize
what's going on, when this runs
inside a Spring, Spring is gonna magic
creation those objects. It can inject in a
VendorRepository instance for us. So,
here in the test, we are creating that
objects so we are taking control of the
dependency injection here. So, we're doing
that so we don't have to bring up the
Spring Context. So, we are manually doing
the dependency injection. But in this
case, we are injecting in an instance of
a mocked VendorRepository. So, let's go
ahead and build our webTestClient now.
So, this is a setup code that we need to
do to set up our webTestClient. So now,
we can see here, for our list, let's go
ahead and do that. So, we are going to
return back. You can see our in line 29 of
the category test, I'm setting up a test
that says, using the behavior driven
development testing features of Mockito.
We are saying given findAll action. I'm
gonna return back a new flux over a
cup of category. So, let's do the exact
same thing with vendors here. So, the
first thing that we're gonna have to
do is set up how our mock is gonna behave.
So, I got in here, we're saying give and
findAll. I'm going to say that's going to
return
flux of just.
So, you can see how these builders are
kind of nice to use when you're setting
a test like this.
So, that code sets up the flux. So,
we're gonna say a flux of just to new
Vendor objects. So, this code here,
sets up our Mockito mock for the
VendorRepository. So when findAll is called,
it's gonna return back a flux with two
new Vendor objects in it.
Now, let's say get.
And again, let's take a look at this URI
here. So, we have the v1/vendor, so I'm
gonna copy that over. Now, if I was
doing this in a production environment,
I'd probably make that a final string
that could be shared or a externalized
property. It's also very common to do.
I'll just say expectBodyList.
So, just like in the above example here,
we are going to go out to the list and
we are giving it two elements on that
list, to new vendors on that list, and now,
we're just gonna say that we are going to do
it GET action against the vendors API.
Run the exchange. So, invoke the API, and
now, we're gonna expect back a body, a
list of vendors, and we're gonna
assert that it has a size of two. So,
let's go ahead and run that.
And you can see, that runs happily. Now let's put this
down.
And now, we wanna do the exact same
thing for getById.
So now, it's there. webTestClient.get.
And now, here we're saying vendors, but I also
knew that you'd put in the strings some
id. So, that's gonna do a match or
function there on that.
Let's say exchange.
So, let's go ahead and run this. So you
can see, it's a similar functionality so
we're telling the webtestClient to do
a GET action against this URI. That's our
parameter value that we're gonna inject
into the controller. And so, Spring is
gonna parse that. Get some ID and
check that into controller. Then,
we're can expect it to return back a
Vendor class so let's go ahead and run
that. You can see that now our
test are running. So, let's go ahead and
double check this. I'll run all of them.
Make sure everything runs happily
together.
And we see everything is up and running
happily. So, I am gonna check this in
now for you. So, that is completing the
assignment of vendors, to set up vendor
like two get endpoints. So now, we have
this up and running, and I'm confident
that this is going to work from the web
aspect, when we bring this up. Just to do
a sanity check, I'm going to start the
application. I'm not gonna invoke the
endpoints but we'll start it. Make
sure that the Spring Context isn't
unhappy for some expected or unexpected
reason. And we can see that, it did start
up normally. So, everything is happy with
the Spring Context so I am gonna call
this assignment done.